Instructions to use this template system:
Compiled by Ilona Sparks
Last Updated October 31st, 2010

No guarantees of the accuracy of this information is given.  This is just what worked for me on my system.  

The .bib file is where you put all your citations.  Read some of the references in that file for more info on the bibliography system in LaTeX

The .tex file is where you create the document, it then takes a .bbl file that is created from the .bib file and uses that to add the citations to your paper.

The IEEannot.bst file create a bibliography style that allows for annotations.  I found that placing this file in the same folder as the .bib and .tex files worked fine.  

http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX is a great reference for learning about tex.

NOTE: If you're using TeXShop (at least on a mac) you will need to typeset the .tex file, and then the .bib file (remember to typeset it as bibtex and not latex) and then the .tex file a few times until it all works.  There appear to be self referential elements to LaTex and BibTex that require several iterations of compilation.  

NOTE: If you wish to use command line tools:
(Probably the easiest way to use LaTeX in the labs, you'll need to ssh into vogon to actually use the make file though, the tools aren't installed on the lab machines)

In the make file replace template in MAIN, TEXFILES, and BIBFILES with the name of your file. 

NICK'S NOTE: TexLive for Mac is available as a standalone package from http://www.tug.org/mactex/, or you can get it from macports using the instructions below.

ILONA'S ORIGINAL NOTE: If you're using a mac, TexShop comes highly recommended, go get macports*, type sudo ports install texlive (this gives you the backend and all the tex compilation tools) then type sudo ports install texshop to get a nice gui frontend.  If you've never installed macports before this will take a long time, it downloads a lot of stuff with not a lot of feedback.  Set it up to run overnight if you can.  It took me over an hour.




Changelog:

10-31-10 (Nick): added a note about getting texlive without macports.
10-23-10 (Ilona): original document written by Ilona